---
title: "Training the Mind Towards Cultivating Thoughts of Awakening"
date: 2018-12-02T01:02:03-08:00
draft: false
tags: ["instructions","bodhicitta"]
categories: ["teachings"]
---



Training the mind towards cultivating thoughts of awakening can be discussed under three main topics.  The causes for the aspiring thoughts of awakening to arise, The conditions that cause thoughts of awakening to increase, and  The methods for keeping thoughts of awakening from declining.

## The causes for the aspiring thought of awakening to arise:   
The thought of awakening arises from great compassion which is the altruistic desire for all sentient beings to be free of suffering, and from loving kindness, the altruistic desire for all beings to attain happiness. Therefore in order to cultivate the thought of awakening, you must always practice great compassion and loving kindness for all beings. 

## The conditions that increase the aspiring thought of awakening   
There are seven conditions that cause the aspiring thought of awakening to grow stronger.  Serving a true spiritual friend and guide like your spiritual teacherGenerating yearning and trusting faith in the Three JewelsKnowing and avoiding deeds that tempt you towards obstructive and destructive path.Supplicating all the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions that you do not fall into temptations to commit negative deeds.Recognizing the benefits of the thought of awakening and the faults of cyclic existence and nirvanaRecollecting the excellent qualities of the Buddha and bodhisattvas, such as their miraculous powers and their omniscient wisdom  and, Rejoicing in accomplishing the welfare of others as you would for yourself.
Once you have thus cultivated the conditions that cause the aspiring thought of awakening, you will see the true nature and sufferings of the cyclic existence of birth and rebirth, and will wish to renounce the deeds that cause you to create more negative karma.  By understanding the faults of nirvana, a great desire for seeking emptiness, one’s self- centered desire for liberation just for oneself will be diverted.  By seeing the excellent qualities of the Buddha and bodhisattvas, you will delight in the immediate and ultimate fruits of spiritual practice.  By devotedly supplicating your teacher and the Three Jewels, you will free yourself from temptations to commit negative deeds.  In this way, through removing hindering conditions and achieving conducive ones, the thought of awakening will increase.

## The methods for keeping the aspiring thought of awakening from declining
The Mahayana thought of awakening will decline if, lacking devotion to the teacher and the Three Jewels.  So cultivate faith and devotion to the teacher and the Three Jewels.  Cultivate enthusiastic joy in the welfare of others before oneself.  Rejoice in the deeds of the Buddha and bodhisattvas and aspire to attain the qualities of the Buddha and bodhisattvas so that you may benefit all beings.  And constantly apply oneself to practicing great compassion and loving kindness.    In order to focus your mind you must remind yourself of these conditions that cause the rise, increase and decline of thoughts of awakening.  As a beginner, one may need frequent self- reminders of such conditions, however, eventually you will cultivate a natural awareness of these factors through habitual practice.  Once you have achieved that level, you will understand the perfect conditions under which you can cultivate the thoughts of awakening and prevent these thoughts from declining in the pursuit of samsara. 

--Khöndung Asanga Vajra, Nov 2018




