---
title: Seven Points of Mind Training
pageid: "01"
language: en
date: 2022-01-25 17:31:59-08:00
categories:
  - news
tags:
  - activity
type: post
---
Dungse Asanga Vajra Rinpoche has kindly accepted to teach on “the Seven Points of Mind Training” on Saturday, the 29. January, 9:30 in the morning (CET, i.e. Berlin), which equals 2pm in Delhi or 4:30 pm in Singapore.
Rinpoche was born in Seattle in 1999 and is a wonderful and very learned Tibetan master of the Sakya tradition, being a direct descendant of the illustrious Khön family. You can find more details on Dungse Rinpoche here and here.
Rinpoche will teach on the very important and pithy Mind Training (Lojong) text, which has been brought to Tibet by Jowo Atisha (982-1054), and written down by Geshe Chekawa Yeshe Dorje (1101-1175). It became the crucial practice of the ancient Kadampa masters. These seven points entail:
1. The Preliminaries to Mind Training
2. The Main Practice of Training the Mind in Bodhichitta 3. Transforming Adversity into the Path of Awakening
4. Applying the Practice Throughout One's Whole Life 5. The Measure or Signs of Proficiency in Mind Training 6. The Commitments of Mind Training
7. The Precepts of Mind Training
This event will only happen online and in english only.
To receive the zoom link to participate, please register by writing an email to buddhismus@berlin.de
To ensure your participation, please register before the 28. January. The Zoom link will be sent to the registered participants one hour prior to the teaching on the 29. January.
Your Buddhism in Berlin Team (www.berlin-buddhismus.de)